Two giraffe being transported on the N1 near Pretoria bumped their heads on an overhead bridge. JOHANNESBURG - It&39;s emerged that a second giraffe has died, allegedly while being captured, at the Meyersdal Eco Estate. This incident occurred a day before it was meant to be transported with two other giraffe on Thursday 31 July. One of those giraffes died, when it hit its head on the Garsfontein road bridge in Pretoria East, while being transported on the back of a truck. The giraffes were headed for a game farm in Limpopo when the truck broke down in the morning. After it was repaired the giraffe hit its head and then was taken to a local vet where it later died. Legal representative for the Meyersdal Eco Estate Andrew Boerner says the cause of death of the female sub-adult giraffe, who died during capture, is unknown as no autopsy was done. “Essentially we don’t know the cause of death because the vet offered to do an autopsy, but the buyer Dirk Boshoff didn’t want it,” said Boerner, an attorney with Jurgens Bekker Attorneys. Boerner said that their client Meyersdal Eco Estate was assured that the game capturing company Ditjabe Wildlife Services, would follow all ethical and legal requirements. “The management and community of Meyersdal Eco Estate are shocked and deeply saddened by the death of the female giraffe during the attempted capture,” said Boerner. The NSPCA only heard rumours of the incident on Monday afternoon. “I don’t know why we were the last to know about it, we should have been told about it first,” said Ainsley Hay, manager of Wildlife Protection at the NSPCA. Hay says Meyersdal Eco State has been negligent in not immediately informing the NSPCA. She has confirmed that they are now investigating the incident. “Animals dying in game capture operation – that’s not normal,” she said. Dirk Boshoff of Ditjabe Wildlife services confirmed that his company was involved in the capture but wouldn&39;t comment further to eNCA.com. “I am aware of the incident and my team was there but I wasn’t at the scene so I can’t comment on the incident, said Boshoff. Meyersdal Eco Estate is a luxury residential complex situated south of Johannesburg. On its website it describes itself as “one of the most upmarket and exclusive private residential estates for the discerning individual insisting on the highest standards of living, security and safety, while enjoying the splendour of the natural environment.” A four bedroom house can sell for anywhere between R7 million and R15 million rand on this 450 hectare estate. They boast having 12 game species totaling 300 animals on the eco estate. There were initially six giraffe on the estate and now there are only three. The remaining three giraffe are all in a good condition, said Boerner. It&39;s not immediately clear how the second giraffe on the truck, is recovering.