PRETORIA – A 65-year-old Garsfontein man was punched three times and verbally assaulted by an angry motorist in a second road rage incident captured on video this week. Jan Swart was travelling home on Wednesday evening when he noticed a car driving erratically on the N1 highway slip road to Atterbury Road at about 5pm. The driver concerned was Paul Maroulis, also a resident of Garsfontein. “I was alone in my car and this guy seemed deeply aggravated about something and was trying to push me off the road. Then he cut in front of me and started stopping and starting. After the third or fourth time I reached for my cellphone to take a picture of his number plate and that’s when he stopped again and I bumped him,” Swart told eNCA. Swart, who drives a Landrover, said there appeared to be very little damage, and so he continued along in the peak hour traffic, eventually stopping on the side of Atterbury Road. Maroulis pulled over in front of him, jumped out and started screaming abuse at Swart. The incident was captured on video by another motorist, and shows Maroulis yelling and swearing. “He was going absolutely berserk and turned around and hit me. I fell onto my passenger seat, and when I pulled myself up he hit me again while I was still dizzy from the first shot,” Swart said. “I tried to speak to him and calm him down and he hit me on the left eye – thankfully not as hard as the other two times,” Swart said. Swart went to report the matter at the Garsfontein police station near his home and was told he needed to open the case at Brooklyn. He arrived at Brooklyn and encountered Maroulis there. He was told that Maroulis had opened a case against him for bumping his car and leaving the scene. “So I asked the police how he could have had my name, ID number and everything if I ran away,” Swart said. Swart opened a case of assault against Maroulis. He also consulted his doctor as he has had constant headaches, and was diagnosed with mild concussion and a bruised jaw. Efforts to reach Maroulis on his cellphone and work numbers for comment have been unsuccessful. Anti-crime initiative e-Blockwatch – responsible for posting a Witkoppen Road rage video on its website earlier this week – has also posted this latest video. e-Blockwatch founder Andre Snyman said his organisation was keen to crack down on road rage offenders. The first video has attracted well over 250 000 views.