Oscar Pistorius becomes emotional during his trial at the high court in Pretoria, April 7, 2014. PRETORIA - The time Reeva Steenkamp last ate before her death, the location of the bullet holes in the toilet door and the location of her injuries all came into focus this morning as the defence began laying out Oscar Pistorius’s version of what happened in the Valentine’s Day shooting last year. Defence Advocate Barry Roux told the court he planned to call between 14 and 17 witnesses to testify on areas such as ballistics, pathology, disability and vulnerability. Instead of calling Pistorius to the stand first to lay out the case, he asked Judge Thokozile Masipa for permission to initially commence with a pathologist. This was agreed to, and private practitioner Professor Jan Botha was called to the stand. Botha listed his qualifications and experience, which included a masters degree in Forensic Medicine and having worked as chief pathologist for the state in various provinces before moving into private practice. He has performed 25,000 autopsies and given evidence in court “thousands” of times. Botha, led through his evidence by Roux, said the issue of “gastric emptying” was not an exact science. Roux was attempting to cast doubt on evidence by Professor Gert Saayman, who conducted the autopsy on Steenkamp, and who testified for the State previously. Saayman had testified that the contents of Steenkamp’s stomach indicated that she had eaten no more than two hours prior to her death. This was in conflict with Pistorius’s version that he and Steenkamp had retired to bed at about 10pm, just over five hours before she was shot dead. Botha said in his experience, and according to the latest research, gastric emptying should be viewed with caution because the amount of food eaten, the mental state of the deceased and other variables that were not all known had to be viewed before a conclusion could be drawn. “As a pathologist, would you know for instance, the time of the last meal?” Roux asked Botha. Botha said he did not recall ever having been asked to determine the time or the volume of a deceased’s last meal. On some occasions he had been asked to look at medication the deceased had taken – but these instances were the exception. His view was that Saayman’s findings that Steenkamp had eaten “an hour or two” before her death could be correct, but the timing could also have been “considerably longer”. Nel then took Botha through the shot-by-shot sequence of Steenkamp&39;s last moments in the early hours of Valentine&39;s Day last year when Pistorius shot her as she was in the toilet cubicle of his Pretoria home. “Could you form any impression of the chronology of the sequence of the wounding of the deceased?” Roux asked. Botha said he believed Steenkamp had been standing close to the door, bending forward when she was struck first in the right hip and lost her balance. The second shot hit her in the right arm, shattering the bones. The third shot injured her left hand but then ricocheted off the wall behind her, Botha claimed.  He said Steenkamp then fell down on the wooden magazine rack next to the toilet when the fourth shot struck her in the head. Botha said if Steenkamp was sitting on the magazine rack when she was shot, she would have been “too high.” Botha said the shot to the arm was akin to a “traumatic amputation” and Steenkamp would not have been able to lift her hands to her head in a defensive postion as had been explained by the state’s ballistic expert, Captain Chris Mangena. Botha said he believed that injuries to Steenkamp’s back had been caused by her falling against the magazine rack. Mangena, however, had testified that he believed the bullet that missed her had shattered and bounced back off the wall in pieces, causing bruises on Steenkamp’s back without penetrating the skin. Botha said if the shots were fired in rapid sequence – within four seconds – it was unlikely that Steenkamp would have screamed, as she would have been in shock, panic and fear. Pistorius, while listening to Botha talk about Steenkamp’s injuries, began vomiting in court. He held his hands over his head when Botha described any anatomical details, but made a quick recovery to watch the adversarial exchanges between the two. Testifying on the contents of Steenkamp’s bladder, Botha said the bladder fills at a rate of 60ml an hour, so if her bladder was virtually empty this was consistent with her having emptied her bladder before death. In cross examining Botha, Nel asked if Botha had used the defence’s expert forensic pathologist’s report in coming to his conclusions. Botha said he had used only Dr Gert Saayman’s report and had not attended the autopsy. Botha said he had come to the conclusion that Steenkamp had been bending slightly forward when she was shot in the hip because of the "collar of abrasion on the wound". A collar of abrasion is caused when a bullet strikes a body at an angle. Mangena had previously testified that this irregularity had been caused by the bullet having passed through a wooden door before it struck Steenkamp. Nel asked Botha if he had discounted the presence of the door in the shooting and asked if he could produce any published research on abrasion injuries that took into account a bullet having passed first through a solid object before striking the target. Botha said he could not. Challenging Botha on his evidence that Steenkamp could have eaten several hours earlier than Saayman had claimed, Nel asked him if he disagreed with the contention that the process of digestion was ongoing. Botha conceded that he could not say Saayman was wrong in concluding that Steenkamp had eaten no more than two hours prior to her death. Asked if he could determine the sequence of the shots, Botha said he was not a ballistics expert and could not say for sure. He could therefore not say which of the shots had missed Steenkamp, but estimated that it would have been the third or fourth. Botha said he had tried to work out Steenkamp’s position as she was shot. Her hip wound happened at 93cm – this was the level of the lowest bullet hole marked on the damaged toilet door. Pressed by Nel, he conceded that this was probably the first shot and the hole most likely matched this first shot. Botha agreed that Steenkamp would have fallen backwards and to the right. Nel, questioning Botha through the evidence he gave earlier, said Steenkamp was then hit in her right arm. The bullet hit her in the back of her arm and exited the front. Since there were no related injuries to her body, Steenkamp’s arm must have been held in a position that was away from her body, Botha claimed. He said he could not say this with certainty, prompting Nel to ask him why he had chosen to give evidence and issues he was not qualified in. Challenging Botha’s contention that Steenkamp was close to the door when she was shot, Nel asked what he would say to the fact that blood spatters and tissue matter were found on the wall behind her. Botha conceded it would mean that she was relatively close to the wall. Referring to a photograph of blood on the toilet seat and a pool on the floor, Nel asked if the two were linked. Botha said he believed they were not, saying the blood on the seat had come from the head wound and the blood on the floor had come from Steenkamp’s injured right arm. Botha also conceded that his evidence that there was no blood on the walls next to the toilet was incorrect after he was shown a photograph of blood, hair and tissue on the wall. Nel pointed out that Botha should then agree that the head shot was the incapacitating wound and therefore was probably the fourth and final shot. Botha said he believed bruising to Steenkamp’s back had been caused by her falling backwards on the magazing rack. Looking at a close-up of the purple bruise, lines in the bruise were believed by Botha to match the wood grain of the rack. Nel pointed out that there were untouched hairs within the bruise, and that these would not be expected to be found in an abrasion incident. Botha conceded that it was unlikely that hairs would still be present in a fall injury, but that it was possible. Court adjourned for an early tea break, after which Nel will continue questioning Botha.