Forensic expert Roger Dixon answers questions from prosecutor Gerrie Nel (foreground) during the murder trial of paralympian Oscar Pistorius at the North Gauteng High Court on Wednesday, 16 April 2014. To view live coverage of the Oscar Pistorius trial go to www.enca.com/oscartrial PRETORIA - Forensic expert Roger Dixon’s intense grilling by prosecutor Gerrie Nel continued after the tea break this morning, with Dixon admitting he had not been present when the gunshot sounds he testified about were recorded. Nel rigorously challenged the grey-haired expert on his evidence, getting him to concede that the initial gunshot tests carried out by the defence had to be redone because the firearm used in that instance had repeatedly jammed. It therefore could not be fired rapidly. Nel enquired as to when Dixon had listened to the recording of the second tests, prior to hearing them in court. Dixon said he had heard them in an office at the court in the presence of the defence’s ballistic expert and legal team. Responding to Nel’s questioning on his memory of the first test, Dixon said he remembered very few shots being fired because the gun had jammed and there was difficulty in getting hold of Black Talon type of ammunition. Dixon said he&39;d interviewed Pistorius briefly at the beginning of March, when he asked him to describe the force with which he&39;d swung the bat. Pistorius had described a strong vibration with the first strike. Nel asked if Dixon had questioned Pistorius on whether or not he&39;d changed his position, or the force he used, when wielding the bat to break down the toilet door. Dixon replied to the contrary, saying he had made the assumption that the repeat blows would have been done in the same way. Nel asked Dixon if he could say which of the four bullet holes in the door matched with the ricochet mark on the wall in the toilet. Dixon replied shot C – believed to be the third shot – was the hole most likely to correspond with the ricochet. Nel also enquired of Dixon his response to the conclusion by laser tests conducted on the door, which indicated that only hole B could be linked to the ricochet. Dixon appeared flustered and explained that there were many variables involved and that evidence changed as more information came to light. Nel asked Dixon how he had come to the conclusion that fibres on the door were from Pistorius’s sock. Dixon said he had seen photographs of the socks and had seen the door mark and fibres under bright lights in court and was satisfied that they were the same. Nel asked if it was possible that these fibres could possibly be from the mutton cloth used by court cleaners who cleaned the door now that it is in the public domain. Dixon said he did not think so. Nel questioned Dixon on his findings that there were splinters around Steenkamp’s hip wound when state pathologist Professor Gert Saayman had not made this finding. Dixon said he was of a different opinion. “But you are not a ballistics wound expert, nor were you present at the post mortem,” Nel commented. Dixon also stated he differed in view with Saayman on the bruises on Steenkamp’s back, which Saayman believed were injuries caused by ricocheted bullet splinters. Dixon remained firm on his opinion that the injuries were consistent Steenkamp having fallen backwards onto the wooden magazine rack. Court has adjourned for lunch and proceedings will resume at 2pm.