Petrol pumps at a Total filling station in Newtown, Johannesburg. by Gill Gifford and Dianne Hawker  SUNNINGHILL – Eskom’s high diesel consumption along with the effects of a recent diesel price decrease, is causing major concerns about the stability of diesel supply and reserves. Motorists have reported difficulties in filling up, with a number of stations not having supplies. Bulk load suppliers have also told eNCA.com of long queues at depots and "rations" which they attribute, in part, to Eskom’s increased usage of diesel. A fuel industry insider with knowledge of Eskom’s diesel supply operation said Eskom had failed to adequately forecast its diesel supply needs for December. As a result, it ran out on December 4. Eskom CEO Tshediso Matona seems to have confirmed this at Monday’s press conference, saying: “I made the point that we ran out of diesel. We didn’t have diesel on Thursday and Friday. But we were able to place orders for diesel over the weekend.” The industry insider said Eskom’s diesel demand has “resulted in major problems in the Western Cape”. “They are taking huge volumes and are putting all the (petroleum) companies under huge pressure. It’s having a helluva impact on our diesel reserves,” he said. He added that mass suppliers were “under ration” and were only able to collect a certain number of litres per day at depots. Companies supplying Eskom were not able to supply some of their other customers as a result of the rations, he added. According to Eskom, the two power stations that use diesel were initially intended to bolster peak demand but were running at four times the intended capacity. The insider said Eskom was buying diesel at wholesalers price – R10,99 per litre. At that rate, Eskom could have paid R1,5-billion for diesel in November alone – excluding any additional transport or logistical costs. Matona revealed that in November the diesel powered plants gobbled 140 million litres of diesel and admitted that the diesel supply problem had been caused by poor planning. “We had a situation with regards to the logistics of diesel because we ran out of water for our pump storage. And of course there was a delay in putting in orders for the diesel because we are in a financially constrained environment. And so each order, when it’s placed, we need to ensure there is budget for it,” Matona said. Eskom group executive Matshela Koko addressed a media briefing on Monday and referred to the Ankerlig and Gourikwa power stations, which consume 425,000 and 236,000 litres of diesel per hour respectively. They are designed to run for three hours.“We’ve been running them up to twelve hours,” Koko said. Fuel suppliers who spoke to eNCA.com revealed the largest diesel tanker could transport around 390,000 litres of diesel -- this is less than what the Ankerlig power station alone consumes in just one hour. Koko said he didn’t believe these high volumes of consumption had affected the supply of diesel to road users. However bulk diesel suppliers say South Africa’s diesel supply matrix is already under pressure. “There are huge pile ups at the depos. I think it is related to the decrease in the price of diesel. When the price goes down everybody wants to benefit from the change in price,” said Carl Coetzee, owner of Sebaka diesel suppliers. Coetzee said the diesel sector was currently under strain. He said the November price decrease had resulted in many large diesel consumers delaying their orders and putting suppliers under pressure. “We’re talking about consumers who stock 10,000 litres at a time. This (delay in purchasing) does cause a huge knock to us suppliers,” he said. Coetzee was amazed at the amount of diesel Eskom had burned in November. “I can’t see how we can keep on supplying that quantity,” he said. He would not speculate about the effect Eskom’s decreased demand was having on the general supply. Another bulk supplier confirmed that rations were in place, but said this had been going on for several months. “All over South Africa, there is a problem of a diesel shortage. He agreed that queues at depots were longer than usual and said it now took double the time to load fuel. This supplier attributed the problem, in part, to delays in getting diesel tankers to the Cape Town Harbour as a result of rough seas. He would not speculate on Eskom’s role in further constraining supply. But while some industry figures denied problems with diesel supplies at the pumps, the Automobile Association (AA) confirmed that they had been receiving complaints and queries from motorists who had been effected. AA spokesman Marius Luyd said: “Nobody can tell us what’s going on. We suspect it has to do with the Eskom debacle, but I cannot give you any facts because nobody’s coming back to us with information or figures.” Luyd said the AA had a researcher specifically tasked with looking at the fuel situation who had been unsuccessful in efforts to find out what was happening with diesel supplies for motorists. However Fani Tshifularo, CEO of the SA Petroleum Industry Association, said he was not aware of any problems at the diesel pumps. “Right now, if there was a problem with diesel in Gauteng, I would know about it.” 