JOHANNESBURG – South African teacher Pierre Korkie could not hear his wife Yolande speaking moments before she was released by kidnappers in Yemen. But the couple embraced and Pierre shared a few words with her before they were parted in January this year. Husband Pierre was killed during a United States drone strike on several houses in Shabwah, Yemen, on Saturday. On Tuesday morning his body was returned to South Africa after being handed over by US Special Forces. It was originally expected back in the country on Monday evening. A couple's final moment “We held each other,” wife Yolande said recalling the couple's final moments together. “He could not hear, he said I love you and tell the children I love them.” She spoke of her husband during a press conference on Tuesday at the office of the Gift of the Givers in Bramley, Johannesburg. Several times during the conference Yolande’s eyes watered and her face reddened, particularly when she spoke about her children and how the family is coping. Soon after learning of her husband's death days earlier, Yolande had said she was brokenhearted. Teaching in a torn country The couple’s teenage children, Peter and Lize, flanked their mother as she addressed the media. “My husband has a heart for the poor people,” said Yolande, while describing the family’s move to the Middle East. The Korkies settled in Yemen in December 2009. Yolande and Pierre were kidnapped in May 2013 and Yolande was released after negotiations by Gift of the Givers in January 2014. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) evacuated the children soon after their parents' were captured. Yolande described her husband as a good father and committed educator, who wanted to help students in the Middle Eastern country of Yemen, which has been marred by conflict. Pierre Korkie had retired, but continued teaching in Yemen, while Yolande worked in the community. She volunteered at a local hospital. The couple were abducted when militants mistook the South Africans for Americans. Pierre would never make it back to South Africa alive. “I visualised something different, him holding me in his arms, hearing his soft voice,” she said of his return. Yolande was expecting to reunite with her husband by Christmas. His kidnappers had agreed to return him but that arrangement, brokered by Gift of the Givers, was thwarted by the drone strike. Yolande said she and the children still make Pierre’s favourite food and wear his T-shirts, as they did throughout his 18-month capture. Asked by eNCA if she regretted going to Yemen since her husband was killed there, Yolande said she did not. “We have lost but we cannot regret,” she said. “It is God’s will,” she added quietly. The Korkie family received the body of Pierre at Waterkloof Air Force Base on Tuesday morning. Gift of the Givers founder Imtiaz Sooliman said Yolande had not yet viewed the body. Yolande said her husband would never return physically. “But in our hearts he will never die.” She intends to write a book about the family’s experience and said details on Pierre’s memorial would be available later. It is expected to take place in Bloemfontein this weekend. Several dead in drone strike American photojournalist Luke Somers was also killed in the failed rescue mission led by United States Special Forces, with Yemeni government troops participating. Several civilians were among those killed. A local community leader demanded compensation from the Yemeni government for civilian deaths of, he said, seven people. Families were paid $200,000 (approximately R2.2-million) in compensation for the deaths of relatives in a US drone attack. It is unclear what the death toll had climbed to. Additional reporting Sapa