Around 500 people are said to live in caves scattered across Kenya's Great Rift Valley. GilGil, Kenya - In Swahili, they are known as ‘Watu wa Mashimo’ - the people who live in caves. Their existence is little more than a rumour, really. To those in Kenya&39;s major towns, it seems unbelievable that anyone would chose to live inside a rock - rather than in a building - or at worst, in a shack or tent. Our East Africa crew set out to track them down, to see if the rumours about them are true. It was no easy task. Our team climbed mountain after mountain, searching, scouring the harsh former volcanic outcrop for hours with no luck. Finally we come across Joseph Lesiatoi. Armed with a panga, he takes us to his former home. He told us what life was like living in a cave with his family. ‘At first we tried to farm here,’ he told us. ‘But the monkeys attacked our crops. So we switched to burning charcoal. That&39;s how we make money.’ Joseph points to a small hole in the side of the rock. ‘This was the cave we used to live in.’ The tiny cave is made up of two areas: one for sleeping, the other for cooking. Joseph explains that he was forced to move here with his wife and children here after they were kicked off land in a town nearby. "It very comfortable because were never rained on," he explains. ‘Everyone had a blanket so we rarely felt cold. Our food was stored in the other part of the cave and we would store our clothes here. There were snakes sometimes at the back, and so we would light a fire for about two days before moving in - let the cave fill with smoke to chase away the snakes.’ After some years of living in the cave, a mysterious skin disease started affecting his children. He moved them away. He explained to us that he believes the disease came from the waste product of fur from the animals they would kill to eat. The fur contained fleas, which would bite his children, and eventually those wounds became infected. They couldn&39;t afford medicine for the disease and he knows of at least one person from a nearby cave who eventually died as a result. He and his friend continued to live there for close to 15 years, earning about $30 a month selling charcoal they burned. He has now joined his family in a tent in a valley nearby, but he tells us that there are about 500 people living in caves scattered across the hills. We continue our search for more Watu wa Mashimo. We are unlucky, Joseph explains. His neighbour’s cave was abandoned. He believes they were also affected by the recurring skin disease. But on our way back to our vehicle, we come across called Wilson Ndirangu, who has converted two boulders, side by side, into a cave of sorts, using plastic. He lives alone. Wilson explains that he dropped out of school and doesn’t know how to read and write, but relies on his bible for comfort. He says he enjoys life here, despite the hardships, and would rather live here than in a tent where the rain can still come in and it&39;s colder. It&39;s no easy life- one of steep hills, of tracking wild animals for food and smoking out unwanted guests, like snakes, using fire. But one these young men say they would miss it if they had to live anywhere else.